Ab/java docs workflow definition (#949)
temporalio/documentation: docs/java/how-to-develop-a-workflow-definition-in-java.md

## Workflow interface

The Workflow interface is a Java interface and is annotated with `@WorkflowInterface`.

> Workflow interface methods must have one [`@WorkflowMethod`](# `@WorkflowMethod`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workflow interface methods must have one [`@WorkflowMethod`](#workflowmethod).
```

Use `@SignalMethod`, `@QueryMethod` for Signals, and Queries in the Workflow.
To call Activities in your Workflow, see [Activities](/docs/java/activities).

> You can also invoke other Workflows as Child Workflows with `Workflow.newChildWorkflowStub()` within a Workflow Definition. See [Child Workflow Execution](/docs/java/how-to-spawn-a-child-workflow-execution-in-java) for more information.

Reviewer 2: there is also Workflow.newUntypedChildWorkflowStub()
you can also signal other running workflows via newExternalWorkflowStub

## Workflow interface

The Workflow interface is a Java interface and is annotated with `@WorkflowInterface`.

> Workflow interface methods must have one [`@WorkflowMethod`](#workflowmethod).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each Workflow interface method must have one [`@WorkflowMethod`](#workflowmethod).
```

> Use `@SignalMethod`, `@QueryMethod` for Signals, and Queries in the Workflow.

Reviewer: Not quite sure how to read this sentence.

Author: lol yeah. changed to:
"The Workflow interface is a Java interface and is annotated with `@WorkflowInterface`.
Workflow interface methods must have one [`@WorkflowMethod`](#workflowmethod).
Use `@SignalMethod` for Signals, and `@QueryMethod` for Queries in the Workflow."

> You can Signal other running Workflows using `newExternalWorkflowStub`. See [How to spawn a Workflow Execution in Java](/docs/java/how-to-spawn-a-workflow-execution-in-java/#external-workflows).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can send signals to other running Workflows using `newExternalWorkflowStub`.
See [How to spawn a Workflow Execution in Java](/docs/java/how-to-spawn-a-workflow-execution-in-java/#external-workflows).
```

}
```

### `@WorkflowMethod`

The `@WorkflowMethod` identifies the method that is starting point of the Workflow Function Execution. The [Workflow Execution](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-execution) completes when this method completes.

> A Workflow Definition interface in Java can only have one method annotated with `@WorkflowMethod`. It can be used to denote the [Workflow Type](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Workflow Definition interface in Java can have only one method annotated with `@WorkflowMethod`. It can be used to denote the [Workflow Type](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-type).
```

The Workflow Type defaults to the short name of the Workflow interface. In the following example, the Workflow Type defaults to "NotifyUserAccounts".

```java
  @WorkflowInterface

  public interface NotifyUserAccounts {
    @WorkflowMethod
    void notify(String[] accountIds);
}
```

> To overwrite this default naming and assign a custom Workflow Type, use the `@WorkflowMethod` annotation with the `name` parameter. In the following example, the Workflow Type is set to “Abc”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To overwrite this default naming and assign a custom Workflow Type, use the `@WorkflowMethod` annotation with the `name` parameter.
In the following example, the Workflow Type is set to "Abc".
```

```java
@WorkflowInterface

  public interface NotifyUserAccounts {
  @WorkflowMethod(name = "Abc")
  void notify(String[] accountIds);
  }
```

> When setting the Workflow Type this way, the value of the `name` parameter does not have to start with an upper case letter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you set the Workflow Type this way, the value of the `name` parameter does not have to start with an uppercase letter.
```
First edit avoids a dangling participle. (Otherwise, "the value" sets the Workflow Type rather than the developer.)

A method annotated with `@WorkflowMethod` can have any number of parameters. We recommend passing a single parameter that contains all the input fields. This allows adding fields in a backward compatible manner.

> A Workflow Type can only be registered once per Worker entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Workflow Type can be registered only once per Worker entity.
```

> If you try to register multiple Workflow implementations of the same type, you will get an exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you try to register multiple Workflow implementations of the same type, you get an exception.
```

### `@QueryMethod`

The `@QueryMethod` annotation indicates that the method is used to handle a [Query](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-query) that is sent to the Workflow Execution.
The method can have parameters that can be used to filter data that the Query returns.
Because the method returns a value, it must have a return type that is not `void`.

The Query name defaults to the name of the method.
In the following example, the Query name defaults to `getStatus`.

```java
@WorkflowInterface
public interface FileProcessingWorkflow {
    @QueryMethod
    String getStatus();
}
```

To overwrite this default naming and assign a custom Query name, use the `@QueryMethod` annotation with the `name` parameter. In the following example, the Query name is set to "history".

```java
@WorkflowInterface
public interface FileProcessingWorkflow {

>     @QueryMethod(name="history")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    @QueryMethod(name = "history")
```

}
```

### `@WorkflowMethod`

> The `@WorkflowMethod` identifies the method that is starting point of the Workflow Function Execution. The [Workflow Execution](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-execution) completes when this method completes.

Author: updated

A Workflow Definition interface in Java can have only one method annotated with `@WorkflowMethod`. It can be used to denote the [Workflow Type](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-type).
The Workflow Type defaults to the short name of the Workflow interface. In the following example, the Workflow Type defaults to "NotifyUserAccounts".

```java
  @WorkflowInterface

  public interface NotifyUserAccounts {
    @WorkflowMethod
    void notify(String[] accountIds);
}
```

To overwrite this default naming and assign a custom Workflow Type, use the `@WorkflowMethod` annotation with the `name` parameter.
In the following example, the Workflow Type is set to "Abc".

```java
@WorkflowInterface

  public interface NotifyUserAccounts {
  @WorkflowMethod(name = "Abc")
  void notify(String[] accountIds);
  }
```

When you set the Workflow Type this way, the value of the `name` parameter does not have to start with an uppercase letter.

> A method annotated with `@WorkflowMethod` can have any number of parameters. We recommend passing a single parameter that contains all the input fields. This allows adding fields in a backward compatible manner.

Reviewer 2: maybe could add that all inputs should be serializable by the default JacksonJsonPayloadConverter

Author: added

A Workflow Type can be registered only once per Worker entity.

> If you try to register multiple Workflow implementations of the same type, you get an exception.

Reviewer 2: exception happens during registering the same workflow type with the worker. its not a runtime exception that happens on the client side or during workflow exec

}
```

### `@WorkflowMethod`

> **@WorkflowMethod** denotes the starting point of [Workflow Execution](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-execution). Workflow Execution completes when this method completes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `@WorkflowMethod` annotation identifies the method that is the starting point of the Workflow Function Execution.
The [Workflow Execution](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-execution) completes when this method completes.
```

I know we have to define Workflow Function a bit better in the concepts - but this is accurate I think.

Author: ok, fixed.

> A Workflow interface can define only a single method annotated with `@WorkflowMethod`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Workflow Definition interface in Java can only have one method annotated with `@WorkflowMethod`.
```

Author: fixed

The `@WorkflowMethod` annotation has a `name` parameter, such as `@WorkflowMethod(name = "MyWorkflowType")`.
It can be used to denote the [Workflow Type](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-workflow-type). If not set, the Workflow Type defaults to the short name of the Workflow interface. In the previous example, the Workflow Type defaults to `FileProcessingWorkflow`.

> A method annotated with `@WorkflowMethod` can have any number of parameters. We recommend passing a single parameter that contains all the input fields. This allows adding fields in a backward compatible manner.

Reviewer 3: This should move up to be after line 53 - before the Workflow Type info - and allow the Workflow Type info + example to flow.

Author: done

In the following Workflow interface example, the Workflow Type is "NotifyUserAccounts".

```java
  @WorkflowInterface

  public interface NotifyUserAccounts {
    @WorkflowMethod
    void notify(String[] accountIds);

    @QueryMethod
    int getCount();
}

```

To overwrite this default naming and assign a custom Workflow Type, use the `@WorkflowMethod` annotation with the `name` parameter, as shown in the following example:

```java
  @WorkflowMethod(name = "Abc")
  void notify(String[] accountIds)

```

> In this case the Workflow Type will be “Abc”. When you set a Workflow Type in this way, it does not have to start with an upper case letter.
> You can only register a single, unique Workflow Type with a Worker.
> If you try to register multiple Workflow implementations of the same type, you will get an exception.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the example above, the Workflow Type is now “Abc”.
When you set a Workflow Type in this way, it does not have to start with an upper case letter.

A Workflow Type can only be registered once per Worker Entity.
If you try to register multiple Workflow Definitions implementations of the same type, you will get an exception.
```

We may need to revisit this and improve it.

Author: updated;

### `@QueryMethod`

> `@QueryMethod` indicates that this method can be used to send a [Query](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-query) to the Workflow's state at any time during its execution.
> It can have parameters that can be used to filter a subset of the Workflow's state that it returns.
> Because it returns a value, it must have a return type that is not `void`.
> A Workflow interface can define any number of methods annotated with `@QueryMethod`, but the method names or the `name` parameters for each must be unique.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `@QueryMethod` annotation indicates that the method is used to handle a [Query](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-query) that is sent to the Workflow Execution.
The method can have parameters that can be used to filter the data that the Query returns.
Because the method returns a value, it must have a return type that is not `void`.
A Workflow Definition interface can define multiple methods annotated with `@QueryMethod`, but method names must be unique.
```

Author: Like. Updated.

> The `@QueryMethod` annotation also has a `name` parameter, such as `@QueryMethod(name = "history")`.
> It can be used to denote the Query name.
> If not set, the Query name defaults to the name of the method.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Query names default to the name of the method.
The `@QueryMethod` annotation accepts a `name` parameter which can be used to customize the Query name to be different than the method name.

Example: `@QueryMethod(name = "history")`
```

Author: updated

In the following example, the Query name defaults to `getStatus`.

```java
@WorkflowInterface
public interface FileProcessingWorkflow {

    @QueryMethod(name="history")
    List<String> getHistory();

    @QueryMethod
    String getStatus();
}

> ```

Reviewer 3: I think we can make each annotation example look consistent and clean - pretty sure each one accepts a name parameter?

Author: agreed and updated.

    String getStatus();
}
```

To overwrite this default naming and assign a custom Query name, use the `@QueryMethod` annotation with the `name` parameter. In the following example, the Query name is set to "history".

```java
@WorkflowInterface
public interface FileProcessingWorkflow {
    @QueryMethod(name = "history")
    String getStatus();
}
```

A Workflow Definition interface can define multiple methods annotated with `@QueryMethod`, but the method names or the `name` parameters for each must be unique.

See [Queries](/docs/java/queries) for more information.

### `@SignalMethod`

The `@SignalMethod` annotation indicates that the method is used to handle [Signals](/docs/concepts/what-is-a-signal) and that it can react to external Signals.
The method can have parameters that contain the Signal payload.
This method does not return a value and must have a `void` return type.

The Signal type defaults to the name of the method. In the following example, the Signal type defaults to `retryNow`.

```java
@WorkflowInterface
public interface FileProcessingWorkflow {

    @WorkflowMethod
    String processFile(Arguments args);

    @SignalMethod
    void retryNow();
}
```

> To overwrite this default naming and assign a custom Signal type, use the `@SignalMethod` annotation with the `name` parameter. In the following example, the Signal type is set to "retrysignal" .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To overwrite this default naming and assign a custom Signal type, use the `@SignalMethod` annotation with the `name` parameter.
In the following example, the Signal type is set to "retrysignal".
```

   @Override
    public Object execute(EncodedValues args) {
    }
}
```

The `DynamicWorkflow` must be registered with a Worker.
The following rules apply when registering a Dynamic Workflow with a Worker:

- Only one Workflow implementation that extends `DynamicWorkflow` can be registered with a Worker.
- You can register multiple type-specific Workflow implementations alongside a single `DynamicWorkflow` implementation.
- Implement the `execute` method for Dynamic Workflow implementations. Do not specify a `@WorkflowMethod` when using Dynamic Workflows.
- Implement Signals and Queries dynamically.

  Example for implementing Signal handler dynamically:

  ```java
        Workflow.registerListener(
          (DynamicSignalHandler)
              (signalName, encodedArgs) -> name = encodedArgs.get(0, String.class));
  ```

  Example for implementing Query handler dynamically:

  ```java
        Workflow.registerListener(
          (DynamicQueryHandler)
              (queryType, encodedArgs) -> {
              return name;
      });
  ```

  Note that `DynamicSignalHandler` and `DynamicQueryHandler` can also be implemented in regular Workflow implementations.

> - Since `DynamicWorkflow` can be invoked for different Workflow Types, to check what type is running when your Dynamic Workflow `execute` method runs, use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Because `DynamicWorkflow` can be invoked for different Workflow Types, to check what type is running when your Dynamic Workflow `execute` method runs, use:
```

    Worker worker = factory.newWorker(TASK_QUEUE);

    /* Register the Dynamic Workflow implementation with the Worker. Workflow implementations
    ** must be known to the Worker at runtime in order to dispatch Workflow Tasks.
    */
    worker.registerWorkflowImplementationTypes(DynamicGreetingWorkflowImpl.class);

    // Start all the Workers that are in this process.
    factory.start();

    /* Create the Workflow stub. Note that the Workflow type is not explicitly registered with the Worker */
    WorkflowOptions workflowOptions =
        WorkflowOptions.newBuilder().setTaskQueue(TASK_QUEUE).setWorkflowId(WORKFLOW_ID).build();
    WorkflowStub workflow = client.newUntypedWorkflowStub("DynamicWF", workflowOptions);

    /* Start Workflow Execution and Signal right after. Pass in the Workflow args and Signal args */
    workflow.signalWithStart("greetingSignal", new Object[] {"John"}, new Object[] {"Hello"});

    // Wait for the Workflow to finish getting the results
    String result = workflow.getResult(String.class);

    System.out.println(result);

    System.exit(0);
  }
}
```

### Workflow implementation constraints

> Temporal uses the [Event Sourcing pattern](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/event-sourcing) to recover the state of a Workflow object including its threads and local variable values.

Reviewer 3: Lets get rid of this -
We don't actually use an Event Sourcing pattern.

Author: Done.

            .setWorkflowId("notifyAccounts")
            .setTaskQueue(taskQueue)
            .build()
        );
}
```

Typed `WorkflowStub` are useful because they are type safe. You can invoke your Workflow methods such as [`@WorkflowMethod`](# `@WorkflowMethod`), [`QueryMethod`](# `QueryMethod` ), and [`@SignalMethod`](# `QueryMethod`) directly.

**Untyped `WorkflowStub`**

An untyped `WorkflowStub` does not use the Workflow interface, and is not typesafe. It is more flexible because it has methods from the `WorkflowStub` interface, such as `start`, `signalWithStart`, `getResults` (sync and async), `query`, `signal`, `cancel` and `terminate`.
Note that the Temporal Java SDK also provides typed `WorkflowStub` versions for these methods.

See the `WorkflowStub.java` reference: <https://github.com/temporalio/sdk-java/blob/master/temporal-sdk/src/main/java/io/temporal/client/WorkflowStub.java>

When using untyped `WorkflowStubs`, we rely on the Workflow Type, Activity Type, Child Workflow Type, as well as Query and Signal names.

See [How to spawn a Workflow Execution in Java](/docs/java/how-to-spawn-a-workflow-execution-in-java).

### Calling other Workflows

> Workflows can invoke, and send Signals to, other Workflows purely by name. This helps particularly for executing Workflows written in other language SDKs.

Reviewer 2: does this sentence need the second comma after "to"?

Reviewer: Yes, to close the appositive "and send Signals to". (The sentence remains grammatically correct without the appositive.) The alternative is to remove both commas.

Author: leaving the commas in because I want to separate the ideas of invoking workflows and sending Signals to Workflows.

See the [Temporal Polyglot example](https://github.com/tsurdilo/temporal-polyglot) for more information.

### Dynamic Workflows

Use `DynamicWorkflow` to implement Workflow Types dynamically. When you register a Workflow implementation type that extends `DynamicWorkflow`, it can be used to implement any Workflow type that is not implicitly registered with the Worker.

The main use case for `DynamicWorkflow` is an implementation of custom Domain Specific Languages (DSLs). A single implementation can implement a Workflow Type which by definition is dynamically loaded from some external source.

> You can also use `DynamicWorkflow` when you need a default Workflow that can handle all Workflow Types that are not registered with a Worker.

Reviewer 2: not *explicitly* registered with a worker

> The Dynamic Workflow interface is implemented with the `execute` method. This method takes in `EncodedValues` that are inputs to the Workflow Execution. These inputs can be specified by the Client when invoking the Workflow Execution.

Reviewer 2: Maybe "dynamic workflow implementation should override the "execute method" of the DynamicInterface.

```Java
public class MyDynamicWorkflow implements DynamicWorkflow {
   @Override
    public Object execute(EncodedValues args) {
    }
}
```

The `DynamicWorkflow` must be registered with a Worker.
The following rules apply when registering a Dynamic Workflow with a Worker:

- Only one Workflow implementation that extends `DynamicWorkflow` can be registered with a Worker.
- You can register multiple type-specific Workflow implementations alongside a single `DynamicWorkflow` implementation.
- Implement the `execute` method for Dynamic Workflow implementations. Do not specify a `@WorkflowMethod` when using Dynamic Workflows.
- Implement Signals and Queries dynamically.

  ```Java

>         Workflow.registerListener(

Reviewer 2: maybe we could add a dynamic query registration here too since we mention it. up to you

Author: Yes! I'll add it.

Author: Added sample for DynamicQueryHandler. Thanks @tsurdilo!

          (DynamicSignalHandler)
              (signalName, encodedArgs) -> name = encodedArgs.get(0, String.class));
  ```

- Since `DynamicWorkflow` can be invoked for different Workflow Types, to check what type is running when your Dynamic Workflow `execute` method runs, use:

  ```Java
  String type = Workflow.getInfo().getWorkflowType();
  ```

- All standard `WorkflowOptions` apply to Dynamic Workflows.
- All the determinism rules apply to Workflows that implement this interface.

The following example shows a Dynamic Workflow Implementation.

```Java
// Dynamic Workflow Implementation
public static class DynamicGreetingWorkflowImpl implements DynamicWorkflow {
  private String name;

  @Override
  public Object execute(EncodedValues args) {
    String greeting = args.get(0, String.class);
    String type = Workflow.getInfo().getWorkflowType();

    // Register dynamic Signal handler
    Workflow.registerListener(
        (DynamicSignalHandler)
            (signalName, encodedArgs) -> name = encodedArgs.get(0, String.class));
```

> The following example shows how to register the Dynamic Workflow implementation with a Worker.

Reviewer 2: Missing maybe " and client code how to start a workflow execution".

Author: Updated!
